Docker miscellaneous



https://docs.linuxserver.io/general/swag

use of --user flag and PUID - PGID:


Docker runs all of its containers under the root user domain because it requires access to things like network configuration, process management, and your filesystem. This means that the processes running inside your containers also run as root. This kind of elevated access is not ideal for day-to-day use, and potentially gives applications the access to things they shouldn't (although, a strong understanding of volume and port mapping will help with this).

Another issue is file management within the container's mapped volumes. If the process is running under root, all files and directories created during the container's lifespan will be owned by root, thus becoming inaccessible by you.


Using the PUID and PGID allows our containers to map the container's internal user to a user on the host machine. All of our containers use this method of user mapping and should be applied accordingly.

When creating a container from one of our images, ensure you use the -e PUID and -e PGID options in your docker command:

docker create --name=beets -e PUID=1000 -e PGID=1000 linuxserver/beets(imagename)

Or, if you use docker-compose, add them to the environment: section:

environment:
  - PUID=1000
  - PGID=1000

It is most likely that you will use the id of yourself, which can be obtained by running the command below. The two values you will be interested in are the uid and gid

id $user


https://docs.docker.com/network/network-tutorial-standalone/


IP address and hostname🔗
By default, the container is assigned an IP address for every Docker network it connects to. The IP address is assigned from the pool assigned to the network, so the Docker daemon effectively acts as a DHCP server for each container. Each network also has a default subnet mask and gateway.

When the container starts, it can only be connected to a single network, using --network. However, you can connect a running container to multiple networks using docker network connect. When you start a container using the --network flag, you can specify the IP address assigned to the container on that network using the --ip or --ip6 flags.

https://docs.docker.com/network/


When you connect an existing container to a different network using docker network connect, you can use the --ip or --ip6 flags on that command to specify the container’s IP address on the additional network.

In the same way, a container’s hostname defaults to be the container’s ID in Docker. You can override the hostname using --hostname. When connecting to an existing network using docker network connect, you can use the --alias flag to specify an additional network alias for the container on that network.

https://docs.docker.com/network/links/

Legacy container links
Estimated reading time: 14 minutes
Warning: The --link flag is a legacy feature of Docker. It may eventually be removed. Unless you absolutely need to continue using it, we recommend that you use user-defined networks to facilitate communication between two containers instead of using --link. One feature that user-defined networks do not support that you can do with --link is sharing environment variables between containers. However, you can use other mechanisms such as volumes to share environment variables between containers in a more controlled way.

Warning: It is important to understand that all environment variables originating from Docker within a container are made available to any container that links to it. This could have serious security implications if sensitive data is stored in them.


https://docs.docker.com/network/links/#updating-the-etchosts-file

Note: You can link multiple recipient containers to a single source. For example, you could have multiple (differently named) web containers attached to your db container.


Choose the right type of mount
No matter which type of mount you choose to use, the data looks the same from within the container. It is exposed as either a directory or an individual file in the container’s filesystem.

An easy way to visualize the difference among volumes, bind mounts, and tmpfs mounts is to think about where the data lives on the Docker host.

types of mounts and where they live on the Docker host

Volumes are stored in a part of the host filesystem which is managed by Docker (/var/lib/docker/volumes/ on Linux). Non-Docker processes should not modify this part of the filesystem. Volumes are the best way to persist data in Docker.

Bind mounts may be stored anywhere on the host system. They may even be important system files or directories. Non-Docker processes on the Docker host or a Docker container can modify them at any time.

tmpfs mounts are stored in the host system’s memory only, and are never written to the host system’s filesystem.

Good use cases for volumes
Volumes are the preferred way to persist data in Docker containers and services. Some use cases for volumes include:

Sharing data among multiple running containers. If you don’t explicitly create it, a volume is created the first time it is mounted into a container. When that container stops or is removed, the volume still exists. Multiple containers can mount the same volume simultaneously, either read-write or read-only. Volumes are only removed when you explicitly remove them.

When the Docker host is not guaranteed to have a given directory or file structure. Volumes help you decouple the configuration of the Docker host from the container runtime.

When you want to store your container’s data on a remote host or a cloud provider, rather than locally.

When you need to back up, restore, or migrate data from one Docker host to another, volumes are a better choice. You can stop containers using the volume, then back up the volume’s directory (such as /var/lib/docker/volumes/<volume-name>).


Tips for using bind mounts or volumes
If you use either bind mounts or volumes, keep the following in mind:

If you mount an empty volume into a directory in the container in which files or directories exist, these files or directories are propagated (copied) into the volume. Similarly, if you start a container and specify a volume which does not already exist, an empty volume is created for you. This is a good way to pre-populate data that another container needs.

If you mount a bind mount or non-empty volume into a directory in the container in which some files or directories exist, these files or directories are obscured by the mount, just as if you saved files into /mnt on a Linux host and then mounted a USB drive into /mnt. The contents of /mnt would be obscured by the contents of the USB drive until the USB drive were unmounted. The obscured files are not removed or altered, but are not accessible while the bind mount or volume is mounted.




Backup, restore, or migrate data volumes
Volumes are useful for backups, restores, and migrations. Use the --volumes-from flag to create a new container that mounts that volume.

Backup a container
For example, create a new container named dbstore:

$ docker run -v /dbdata --name dbstore ubuntu /bin/bash
Then in the next command, we:

Launch a new container and mount the volume from the dbstore container
Mount a local host directory as /backup
Pass a command that tars the contents of the dbdata volume to a backup.tar file inside our /backup directory.
$ docker run --rm --volumes-from dbstore -v $(pwd):/backup ubuntu tar cvf /backup/backup.tar /dbdata
When the command completes and the container stops, we are left with a backup of our dbdata volume.

Restore container from backup
With the backup just created, you can restore it to the same container, or another that you made elsewhere.

For example, create a new container named dbstore2:

$ docker run -v /dbdata --name dbstore2 ubuntu /bin/bash
Then un-tar the backup file in the new container`s data volume:

$ docker run --rm --volumes-from dbstore2 -v $(pwd):/backup ubuntu bash -c "cd /dbdata && tar xvf /backup/backup.tar --strip 1"
You can use the techniques above to automate backup, migration and restore testing using your preferred tools.




https://docs.docker.com/develop/develop-images/dockerfile_best-practices/



Only the instructions RUN, COPY, ADD create layers. Other instructions create temporary intermediate images, and do not increase the size of the build.

Where possible, use multi-stage builds, and only copy the artifacts you need into the final image. This allows you to include tools and debug information in your intermediate build stages without increasing the size of the final image.


https://www.ardanlabs.com/blog/2020/02/docker-images-part1-reducing-image-size.html